	It is often claimed that groups in power wield it as a weapon against those beneath them. Oppression over long periods of time inevitably causes tension and anger to amass. Only by changing the social structure forcibly can the oppressed be appeased. The French Revolution exemplifies this historical pattern through the lower class’s relegated quality of life and the violence with which they overturn the monarchy. In Charles Dickens’ novel A Tale of Two Cities, the main characters, Lucy Manette, Dr. Manette, Charles Darnay, and Mr. Lorry, experience the tumultuous change in Britain and France brought about by the French Revolution. In France, wine shop owners Monsieur and Madame Defarge plot and fight against the cruel, repressive French nobility. Dickens uses symbols for the ideologies of the peasants in the French Revolution to convey that continuous oppression produces anger and tension that are often released through violence.
	The symbol of knitting displays the resentful attitudes slowly brewing tension in the oppressed people of Paris. These resentful attitudes came to be because “Feudal aristocracy was cruel to the people. They were barbarous and atrocious” (Li). This mistreatment of the common people was problematic because they made up the vast majority of the population of France, and scanty access to food, excessive manual labor, and rigid class divisions resulted in their inevitable resentment of the nobility. Madame Defarge exhibits such attitudes as she knits in her husband’s wine shop. As Lorry and Lucy convene with Monsieur Defarge, Madame Defarge draws little attention as she quietly works on her knitting. Dickens later reveals that the lower-class women of Paris, including Madame Defarge, knit in order to secretly record the names of nobles and anti-revolutionaries whom they intend to execute in the revolution. While Lorry and Lucy speak with Monsieur Defarge, she “[takes] up her knitting with great apparent calmness and repose of spirit, and [becomes] absorbed in it” (Dickens 25). Dickens’ word choice of ‘repose of spirit’ adds dramatic irony to Madame Defarges’s description because in reality her intentions are vengeful and violent as opposed to holy and tranquil. The metaphor of becoming absorbed in her knitting demonstrates that knitting symbolizes her obsession with toppling the social order and represents fate for those who are intertwined in it. Furthermore, Madame Defarge works with other Parisian women towards their shared revolutionary goals. In preparation for the revolution, Madame Defarge visits groups of women to remind them of their cause and knit with them the names of condemned nobility. As they collectively knit, “the hands [move] for the jaws and the digestive apparatus; if the bony fingers [were] still, the stomachs would [be] more famine-pinched” (Dickens 143). Dickens’ simile created between the women’s knitting hands and their jaws shows how their figurative hunger for equality is just as compelling and consuming as their physical starvation. In addition, the hyperbole that knitting makes them feel less hungry displays how knitting is their method of temporarily satisfying their vicious mindset towards the nobility. Omnipresent vengefulness, symbolized by knitting, is the sole focus of many poor French citizens, making the fated revolution inevitable.
	To complement the symbol of knitting, Dickens uses wine as a symbol of noble bloodthirst in the masses of underprivileged citizens. Outside the Defarges’ wine shop in the Parisian suburb of Saint Antoine, a wine cask falls from a cart and shatters, causing the wine to spread through the street. The principally lower-class population of Saint Antoine accumulates in a frenzy to drink the wine from the street, the mud, and even the wood of the cask. By the time they finish, “[the wine has stained] many hands, too, and many faces, and many naked feet” (Dickens 21). The symbolism of wine staining the peasants foreshadows the lasting change brought about by the tremendous amount of noble blood spilt in the revolution. The staining of hands and feet represents the physical labor and brutality the lower class puts into the revolution, while the stained faces foreshadow how they compromise their identity in favor of the revolutionary cause. Meanwhile, inside the wine shop, Monsieur Defarge meets with the Jacques, three high-level rebels, to discuss the trajectory of the coming revolution. Jaques Three, referring to the poor of Saint Antoine, remarks, “It is not often [...] that many of these miserable beasts know the taste of wine, or of anything but black bread and death” (Dickens 25). With wine established as a symbol for blood, the scarcity of wine means that the lower class’s anger at the wealth disparity between the nobility and the peasantry is seldom appeased. The contrast placed between wine and death suggests a renewed vitality and vigor brought to the population of France through hatred for the aristocracy. Wine symbolically signifies the peasants’ thirst for blood and death to quench their hatred of the wealthy class.
	In alarming contrast with the buildup to the revolution, Dickens’ symbolic use of the Guillotine shows the violence with which the oppressed release their hostility. After the fall of the Bastille prison, the underprivileged class quickly takes control of Paris and establishes laws criminalizing noble emigrants and enabling their execution. As Lucie waits to see Darnay, whom Monsieur Defarge imprisons upon his return to France for his aristocratic descent, a woodsawyer approaches her and her daughter. He brags, “See my saw! I call it my Little Guillotine. La, la, la; la, la, la! And off his head comes!” (Dickens 214). The metaphor comparing the woodsawyer’s saw to the Guillotine implies that the nobility’s lives are worth no more to the peasants than wood. Also, the woodsawyer’s singsong tone creates a flippant attitude, showing how violent executions have become commonplace and justified in the eyes of the French population due to their loathing of the upper class. The immoral acts of the lower class prove that “evil is contagious; it turns victim into perpetrator, morally corrupting, physically threatening all alike” (Friedman). While the nobles were formerly the oppressors, the peasants now turn the same systematic oppression against the nobles like a spreading disease, heightened by the death they inflict and the pleasure they take in doing so. However, not only do the unwealthy citizens of Paris take pleasure in the Guillotine’s use, they praise and worship it. Dickens describes the people’s view of the Guillotine by saying, “It [is] the sign of the regeneration of the human race. It [supersedes] the Cross” (Dickens 212). The perspective of the Guillotine as regenerating the human race creates irony since this view is distinctly contrary to the death and fear which it actually brings. The peasants exalt the Guillotine and its murderous function through a biblical allusion, further emphasizing the irony in their joy at executing the nobles. The symbolic use of the Guillotine proves that cruelty begets anger, which invariably leads to violence in a perpetual cycle.
	Along with the Guillotine as their instrument of extermination, the sea represents the people of the French Revolution and symbolizes the force with which they wash away the previous era. As the revolutionaries amass to storm the Bastille, “Defarge's wine-shop [...] is the epicenter of this rising sea, and the Defarges, Madame and Monsieur, lead the crowd, guiding them in their frenzy” (Rulo). The Defarges metaphorically leading a frenzied sea manifests a change in the Defarges from covertly plotting to openly driving the chaotic revolution. Consequently, they lead the lower-class citizens in a siege of the Bastille prison, an emblem of the oppressive monarchy. As they stream into Paris, Dickens describes how “the living sea [rises], wave on wave, depth on depth, and [overflows] the city” (Dickens 166). The metaphor comparing the poor to a rising sea, an archetype for turmoil, illustrates the increasing violence created by the peasants joining as a homogenous group. This parallel also proves that tension built in the oppressed, like the tension of a growing wave, releases itself violently, as wave does when it crashes. Throughout the revolution, the French peasants become increasingly violent. They execute many aristocratic emigrants, and in a heavily biased trial, they sentence Charles Darnay to death as well. As he steps up to the Guillotine, he sees “the pressing on of many footsteps in the outskirts of the crowd, so that it swells forward in a mass, like one great heave of water” (Dickens 292). Dickens describes the heave of water as massive and great, showing the power the peasants now have and the oppressiveness they now exhibit, driven by their hatred of the nobility. This reinforces the idea of oppression pushing its victims to radical ideas and violent actions. Dickens’ symbolic motif of the sea proves that tension and violence thrive together off of radical ideology.
	Dickens’ symbolic motifs prove that the violence of the French Revolution was predicated on the hatred and anger which form within the lower class. The symbols of knitting as fate and wine as blood represent the violent dissent in the peasantry and their will to destroy the aristocracy. Dickens resolves these ideas through symbols such as the savage Guillotine and the forceful sea, which serve to show the violence of the peasants. Dickens’ symbols paint a coherent picture of the rise of tension and release of anger in the French revolutionaries, and in all repressed groups. This revolution proves that oppression cannot continue perpetually; the oppressed will always reach a point where they must fight back, no matter how violent they must be.
